pulumi-typescript/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: pulumi-typescript
description: Pulumi infrastructure as code using TypeScript with Pulumi Cloud and ESC integration. Use when working with Pulumi TypeScript projects, ESC environments, dynamic secrets, OIDC credentials, or infrastructure automation with Node.js/TypeScript.
---

# Pulumi TypeScript Skill

## Development Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

```bash
# Create new TypeScript project
pulumi new typescript

# Or with a cloud-specific template
pulumi new aws-typescript
pulumi new azure-typescript
pulumi new gcp-typescript
```

**Project structure:**
```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml      # Stack config (use ESC instead)
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── index.ts
```

### 2. Pulumi ESC Integration

Instead of using `pulumi config set` or stack config files, use Pulumi ESC for centralized secrets and configuration.

**Link ESC environment to stack:**
```bash
# Create ESC environment
esc env init myorg/myproject-dev

# Edit environment
esc env edit myorg/myproject-dev

# Link to Pulumi stack
pulumi config env add myorg/myproject-dev
```

**ESC environment definition (YAML):**
```yaml
values:
  # Static configuration
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    myapp:instanceType: t3.medium

  # Dynamic OIDC credentials for AWS
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/pulumi-oidc
          sessionName: pulumi-deploy

  # Pull secrets from AWS Secrets Manager
  secrets:
    fn::open::aws-secrets:
      region: us-west-2
      login: ${aws.login}
      get:
        dbPassword:
          secretId: prod/database/password

  # Expose to environment variables
  environmentVariables:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${aws.login.accessKeyId}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${aws.login.secretAccessKey}
    AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: ${aws.login.sessionToken}
```

### 3. TypeScript Patterns

**Basic resource creation:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

// Get configuration from ESC
const config = new pulumi.Config();
const instanceType = config.require("instanceType");

// Create resources with proper tagging
const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("my-bucket", {
    versioning: { enabled: true },
    serverSideEncryptionConfiguration: {
        rule: {
            applyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: {
                sseAlgorithm: "AES256",
            },
        },
    },
    tags: {
        Environment: pulumi.getStack(),
        ManagedBy: "Pulumi",
    },
});

// Export outputs
export const bucketName = bucket.id;
export const bucketArn = bucket.arn;
```

**Component resources for reusability:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

interface WebServiceArgs {
    port: pulumi.Input<number>;
    imageUri: pulumi.Input<string>;
}

class WebService extends pulumi.ComponentResource {
    public readonly url: pulumi.Output<string>;

    constructor(name: string, args: WebServiceArgs, opts?: pulumi.ComponentResourceOptions) {
        super("custom:app:WebService", name, {}, opts);

        // Create child resources with { parent: this }
        const lb = new aws.lb.LoadBalancer(`${name}-lb`, {
            loadBalancerType: "application",
            // ... configuration
        }, { parent: this });

        this.url = lb.dnsName;
        this.registerOutputs({ url: this.url });
    }
}
```

**Stack references for cross-stack dependencies:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

// Reference outputs from networking stack
const networkingStack = new pulumi.StackReference("myorg/networking/prod");
const vpcId = networkingStack.getOutput("vpcId");
const subnetIds = networkingStack.getOutput("privateSubnetIds");
```

**Working with Outputs:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

// Use apply for transformations
const uppercaseName = bucket.id.apply(id => id.toUpperCase());

// Use pulumi.all for multiple outputs
const combined = pulumi.all([bucket.id, bucket.arn]).apply(
    ([id, arn]) => `Bucket ${id} has ARN ${arn}`
);

// Conditional resources
const isProd = pulumi.getStack() === "prod";
const monitoring = isProd ? new aws.cloudwatch.MetricAlarm("alarm", {
    // ... configuration
}) : undefined;
```

### 4. Using ESC with esc run

Run any command with ESC environment variables injected:

```bash
# Run pulumi commands with ESC credentials
esc run myorg/aws-dev -- pulumi up

# Run tests with secrets
esc run myorg/test-env -- npm test

# Open environment and export to shell
esc open myorg/myproject-dev --format shell
```

### 5. Async Patterns

```typescript
// Export async function for top-level await
export = async () => {
    const data = await fetchExternalData();

    const resource = new aws.s3.Bucket("bucket", {
        tags: { data: data.value },
    });

    return {
        bucketName: resource.id,
    };
};
```

### 6. Multi-Language Components

Create components in TypeScript that can be consumed from any Pulumi language (Python, Go, C#, Java, YAML).

**Project structure for multi-language component:**
```
my-component/
├── PulumiPlugin.yaml      # Required for multi-language
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── index.ts               # Component definition
```

**PulumiPlugin.yaml:**
```yaml
runtime: nodejs
```

**Component with proper Args interface:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

// Args interface - use Input types for all properties
export interface SecureBucketArgs {
    // Wrap all scalar members in Input types
    bucketName: pulumi.Input<string>;
    enableVersioning?: pulumi.Input<boolean>;
    tags?: pulumi.Input<Record<string, pulumi.Input<string>>>;
}

export class SecureBucket extends pulumi.ComponentResource {
    public readonly bucketId: pulumi.Output<string>;
    public readonly bucketArn: pulumi.Output<string>;

    // Constructor must have 'args' parameter with type annotation
    constructor(name: string, args: SecureBucketArgs, opts?: pulumi.ComponentResourceOptions) {
        super("myorg:storage:SecureBucket", name, {}, opts);

        const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket(`${name}-bucket`, {
            bucket: args.bucketName,
            versioning: { enabled: args.enableVersioning ?? true },
            serverSideEncryptionConfiguration: {
                rule: {
                    applyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: {
                        sseAlgorithm: "AES256",
                    },
                },
            },
            tags: args.tags,
        }, { parent: this });

        this.bucketId = bucket.id;
        this.bucketArn = bucket.arn;

        this.registerOutputs({
            bucketId: this.bucketId,
            bucketArn: this.bucketArn,
        });
    }
}
```

**Publishing for multi-language consumption:**
```bash
# Consume from git repository
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component

# With version tag
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component@v1.0.0

# Local development
pulumi package add /path/to/local/my-component
```

**Multi-language Args requirements:**
- Use `pulumi.Input<T>` for all scalar properties
- Avoid union types (`string | number`) - not supported
- Avoid functions/callbacks - not serializable
- Constructor must have `args` parameter with type declaration

## Best Practices

### Security
- Use Pulumi ESC for all secrets - never commit secrets to stack config files
- Enable OIDC authentication instead of static credentials
- Use dynamic secrets with short TTLs when possible
- Apply least-privilege IAM policies

### Code Organization
- Use ComponentResources for reusable infrastructure patterns
- Leverage TypeScript's type system for configuration validation
- Keep stack-specific config in ESC environments
- Use stack references for cross-stack dependencies

### Deployment
- Always run `pulumi preview` before `pulumi up`
- Use ESC environment versioning and tags for releases
- Implement proper tagging strategy for all resources

## Common Commands

```bash
# ESC Commands
esc env init <org>/<project>/<env>    # Create environment
esc env edit <org>/<env>              # Edit environment
esc env get <org>/<env>               # View resolved values
esc run <org>/<env> -- <command>      # Run with env vars
esc env version tag <org>/<env> <tag> # Tag version

# Pulumi Commands
pulumi new typescript                  # New project
pulumi config env add <org>/<env>     # Link ESC environment
pulumi preview                         # Preview changes
pulumi up                              # Deploy
pulumi stack output                    # View outputs
pulumi destroy                         # Tear down
```

## References

- [references/pulumi-esc.md](references/pulumi-esc.md) - ESC patterns and commands
- [references/pulumi-patterns.md](references/pulumi-patterns.md) - Common infrastructure patterns
- [references/pulumi-typescript.md](references/pulumi-typescript.md) - TypeScript-specific guidance
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md) - AWS best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md) - Azure best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md) - GCP best practices

Commit message:

feat: Add pulumi-cli skill and improve existing skills (#8)
- Add new pulumi-cli skill with CLI commands, environment variables, and state management documentation
- Update ESC commands from `esc` to `pulumi env` across TypeScript, Go, and Python skills
- Improve Neo skill with better approval detection via events instead of task status
- Enhance neo_task.py script with improved event parsing and approval request handling
- Update skill descriptions to be more trigger-focused
- Simplify marketplace.json structure
- Bump all skills to version 1.2.0

pulumi-typescript/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: pulumi-typescript
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "create Pulumi TypeScript project", "write Pulumi TypeScript code", "use Pulumi ESC with TypeScript", "set up OIDC for Pulumi", or mentions Pulumi infrastructure automation with Node.js/TypeScript.
version: 1.1.0
---

# Pulumi TypeScript Skill

## Development Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

```bash
# Create new TypeScript project
pulumi new typescript

# Or with a cloud-specific template
pulumi new aws-typescript
pulumi new azure-typescript
pulumi new gcp-typescript
```

**Project structure:**
```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml      # Stack config (use ESC instead)
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── index.ts
```

### 2. Pulumi ESC Integration

Instead of using `pulumi config set` or stack config files, use Pulumi ESC for centralized secrets and configuration.

**Link ESC environment to stack:**
```bash
# Create ESC environment
esc env init myorg/myproject-dev

# Edit environment
esc env edit myorg/myproject-dev

# Link to Pulumi stack
pulumi config env add myorg/myproject-dev
```

**ESC environment definition (YAML):**
```yaml
values:
  # Static configuration
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    myapp:instanceType: t3.medium

  # Dynamic OIDC credentials for AWS
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/pulumi-oidc
          sessionName: pulumi-deploy

  # Pull secrets from AWS Secrets Manager
  secrets:
    fn::open::aws-secrets:
      region: us-west-2
      login: ${aws.login}
      get:
        dbPassword:
          secretId: prod/database/password

  # Expose to environment variables
  environmentVariables:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${aws.login.accessKeyId}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${aws.login.secretAccessKey}
    AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: ${aws.login.sessionToken}
```

### 3. TypeScript Patterns

**Basic resource creation:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

// Get configuration from ESC
const config = new pulumi.Config();
const instanceType = config.require("instanceType");

// Create resources with proper tagging
const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("my-bucket", {
    versioning: { enabled: true },
    serverSideEncryptionConfiguration: {
        rule: {
            applyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: {
                sseAlgorithm: "AES256",
            },
        },
    },
    tags: {
        Environment: pulumi.getStack(),
        ManagedBy: "Pulumi",
    },
});

// Export outputs
export const bucketName = bucket.id;
export const bucketArn = bucket.arn;
```

**Component resources for reusability:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

interface WebServiceArgs {
    port: pulumi.Input<number>;
    imageUri: pulumi.Input<string>;
}

class WebService extends pulumi.ComponentResource {
    public readonly url: pulumi.Output<string>;

    constructor(name: string, args: WebServiceArgs, opts?: pulumi.ComponentResourceOptions) {
        super("custom:app:WebService", name, {}, opts);

        // Create child resources with { parent: this }
        const lb = new aws.lb.LoadBalancer(`${name}-lb`, {
            loadBalancerType: "application",
            // ... configuration
        }, { parent: this });

        this.url = lb.dnsName;
        this.registerOutputs({ url: this.url });
    }
}
```

**Stack references for cross-stack dependencies:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

// Reference outputs from networking stack
const networkingStack = new pulumi.StackReference("myorg/networking/prod");
const vpcId = networkingStack.getOutput("vpcId");
const subnetIds = networkingStack.getOutput("privateSubnetIds");
```

**Working with Outputs:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

// Use apply for transformations
const uppercaseName = bucket.id.apply(id => id.toUpperCase());

// Use pulumi.all for multiple outputs
const combined = pulumi.all([bucket.id, bucket.arn]).apply(
    ([id, arn]) => `Bucket ${id} has ARN ${arn}`
);

// Conditional resources
const isProd = pulumi.getStack() === "prod";
const monitoring = isProd ? new aws.cloudwatch.MetricAlarm("alarm", {
    // ... configuration
}) : undefined;
```

### 4. Using ESC with esc run

Run any command with ESC environment variables injected:

```bash
# Run pulumi commands with ESC credentials
esc run myorg/aws-dev -- pulumi up

# Run tests with secrets
esc run myorg/test-env -- npm test

# Open environment and export to shell
esc open myorg/myproject-dev --format shell
```

### 5. Async Patterns

```typescript
// Export async function for top-level await
export = async () => {
    const data = await fetchExternalData();

    const resource = new aws.s3.Bucket("bucket", {
        tags: { data: data.value },
    });

    return {
        bucketName: resource.id,
    };
};
```

### 6. Multi-Language Components

Create components in TypeScript that can be consumed from any Pulumi language (Python, Go, C#, Java, YAML).

**Project structure for multi-language component:**
```
my-component/
├── PulumiPlugin.yaml      # Required for multi-language
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── index.ts               # Component definition
```

**PulumiPlugin.yaml:**
```yaml
runtime: nodejs
```

**Component with proper Args interface:**
```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

// Args interface - use Input types for all properties
export interface SecureBucketArgs {
    // Wrap all scalar members in Input types
    bucketName: pulumi.Input<string>;
    enableVersioning?: pulumi.Input<boolean>;
    tags?: pulumi.Input<Record<string, pulumi.Input<string>>>;
}

export class SecureBucket extends pulumi.ComponentResource {
    public readonly bucketId: pulumi.Output<string>;
    public readonly bucketArn: pulumi.Output<string>;

    // Constructor must have 'args' parameter with type annotation
    constructor(name: string, args: SecureBucketArgs, opts?: pulumi.ComponentResourceOptions) {
        super("myorg:storage:SecureBucket", name, {}, opts);

        const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket(`${name}-bucket`, {
            bucket: args.bucketName,
            versioning: { enabled: args.enableVersioning ?? true },
            serverSideEncryptionConfiguration: {
                rule: {
                    applyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: {
                        sseAlgorithm: "AES256",
                    },
                },
            },
            tags: args.tags,
        }, { parent: this });

        this.bucketId = bucket.id;
        this.bucketArn = bucket.arn;

        this.registerOutputs({
            bucketId: this.bucketId,
            bucketArn: this.bucketArn,
        });
    }
}
```

**Publishing for multi-language consumption:**
```bash
# Consume from git repository
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component

# With version tag
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component@v1.0.0

# Local development
pulumi package add /path/to/local/my-component
```

**Multi-language Args requirements:**
- Use `pulumi.Input<T>` for all scalar properties
- Avoid union types (`string | number`) - not supported
- Avoid functions/callbacks - not serializable
- Constructor must have `args` parameter with type declaration

## Best Practices

### Security
- Use Pulumi ESC for all secrets - never commit secrets to stack config files
- Enable OIDC authentication instead of static credentials
- Use dynamic secrets with short TTLs when possible
- Apply least-privilege IAM policies

### Code Organization
- Use ComponentResources for reusable infrastructure patterns
- Leverage TypeScript's type system for configuration validation
- Keep stack-specific config in ESC environments
- Use stack references for cross-stack dependencies

### Deployment
- Always run `pulumi preview` before `pulumi up`
- Use ESC environment versioning and tags for releases
- Implement proper tagging strategy for all resources

## Common Commands

```bash
# ESC Commands
esc env init <org>/<project>/<env>    # Create environment
esc env edit <org>/<env>              # Edit environment
esc env get <org>/<env>               # View resolved values
esc run <org>/<env> -- <command>      # Run with env vars
esc env version tag <org>/<env> <tag> # Tag version

# Pulumi Commands
pulumi new typescript                  # New project
pulumi config env add <org>/<env>     # Link ESC environment
pulumi preview                         # Preview changes
pulumi up                              # Deploy
pulumi stack output                    # View outputs
pulumi destroy                         # Tear down
```

## References

- [references/pulumi-esc.md](references/pulumi-esc.md) - ESC patterns and commands
- [references/pulumi-patterns.md](references/pulumi-patterns.md) - Common infrastructure patterns
- [references/pulumi-typescript.md](references/pulumi-typescript.md) - TypeScript-specific guidance
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md) - AWS best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md) - Azure best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md) - GCP best practices
