pulumi-python/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: pulumi-python
description: Pulumi infrastructure as code using Python with Pulumi Cloud and ESC integration. Use when working with Pulumi Python projects, ESC environments, dynamic secrets, OIDC credentials, or infrastructure automation with Python.
---

# Pulumi Python Skill

## Development Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

```bash
# Create new Python project
pulumi new python

# Or with a cloud-specific template
pulumi new aws-python
pulumi new azure-python
pulumi new gcp-python
```

**Project structure:**
```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml      # Stack config (use ESC instead)
├── __main__.py
├── requirements.txt     # or pyproject.toml
└── venv/                # Virtual environment
```

### 2. Pulumi ESC Integration

Instead of using `pulumi config set` or stack config files, use Pulumi ESC for centralized secrets and configuration.

**Link ESC environment to stack:**
```bash
# Create ESC environment
esc env init myorg/myproject-dev

# Edit environment
esc env edit myorg/myproject-dev

# Link to Pulumi stack
pulumi config env add myorg/myproject-dev
```

**ESC environment definition (YAML):**
```yaml
values:
  # Static configuration
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    myapp:instanceType: t3.medium

  # Dynamic OIDC credentials for AWS
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/pulumi-oidc
          sessionName: pulumi-deploy

  # Pull secrets from AWS Secrets Manager
  secrets:
    fn::open::aws-secrets:
      region: us-west-2
      login: ${aws.login}
      get:
        dbPassword:
          secretId: prod/database/password

  # Expose to environment variables
  environmentVariables:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${aws.login.accessKeyId}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${aws.login.secretAccessKey}
    AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: ${aws.login.sessionToken}
```

### 3. Python Patterns

**Basic resource creation:**
```python
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws

# Get configuration from ESC
config = pulumi.Config()
instance_type = config.require("instanceType")

# Create resources with proper tagging
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "my-bucket",
    versioning=aws.s3.BucketVersioningArgs(
        enabled=True,
    ),
    server_side_encryption_configuration=aws.s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationArgs(
        rule=aws.s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleArgs(
            apply_server_side_encryption_by_default=aws.s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefaultArgs(
                sse_algorithm="AES256",
            ),
        ),
    ),
    tags={
        "Environment": pulumi.get_stack(),
        "ManagedBy": "Pulumi",
    },
)

# Export outputs
pulumi.export("bucket_name", bucket.id)
pulumi.export("bucket_arn", bucket.arn)
```

**Using dictionary literals (concise alternative):**
```python
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws

bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "my-bucket",
    versioning={"enabled": True},
    server_side_encryption_configuration={
        "rule": {
            "apply_server_side_encryption_by_default": {
                "sse_algorithm": "AES256",
            },
        },
    },
    tags={
        "Environment": pulumi.get_stack(),
        "ManagedBy": "Pulumi",
    },
)
```

**Component resources for reusability:**
```python
import pulumi
from pulumi_aws import lb


class WebServiceArgs:
    def __init__(self, port: pulumi.Input[int], image_uri: pulumi.Input[str]):
        self.port = port
        self.image_uri = image_uri


class WebService(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    url: pulumi.Output[str]

    def __init__(self, name: str, args: WebServiceArgs, opts: pulumi.ResourceOptions = None):
        super().__init__("custom:app:WebService", name, {}, opts)

        # Create child resources with parent=self
        load_balancer = lb.LoadBalancer(
            f"{name}-lb",
            load_balancer_type="application",
            # ... configuration
            opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=self),
        )

        self.url = load_balancer.dns_name

        self.register_outputs({
            "url": self.url,
        })
```

**Stack references for cross-stack dependencies:**
```python
import pulumi

# Reference outputs from networking stack
networking_stack = pulumi.StackReference("myorg/networking/prod")
vpc_id = networking_stack.get_output("vpc_id")
subnet_ids = networking_stack.get_output("private_subnet_ids")
```

**Working with Outputs:**
```python
import pulumi

# Apply transformation
uppercase_name = bucket.id.apply(lambda id: id.upper())

# Combine multiple outputs
combined = pulumi.Output.all(bucket.id, bucket.arn).apply(
    lambda args: f"Bucket {args[0]} has ARN {args[1]}"
)

# Using Output.concat for string interpolation
message = pulumi.Output.concat("Bucket ARN: ", bucket.arn)

# Conditional resources
is_prod = pulumi.get_stack() == "prod"
if is_prod:
    alarm = aws.cloudwatch.MetricAlarm(
        "alarm",
        # ... configuration
    )
```

### 4. Using ESC with esc run

Run any command with ESC environment variables injected:

```bash
# Run pulumi commands with ESC credentials
esc run myorg/aws-dev -- pulumi up

# Run tests with secrets
esc run myorg/test-env -- pytest

# Open environment and export to shell
esc open myorg/myproject-dev --format shell
```

### 5. Async Patterns

```python
import pulumi
import asyncio

# Pulumi programs are single-threaded
# Use Output.from_input for async-like patterns

async def fetch_data():
    # Async operation
    return {"key": "value"}

# Convert async result to Output
data = pulumi.Output.from_input(asyncio.get_event_loop().run_until_complete(fetch_data()))
```

### 6. Multi-Language Components

Create components in Python that can be consumed from any Pulumi language (TypeScript, Go, C#, Java, YAML).

**Project structure for multi-language component:**
```
my-component/
├── PulumiPlugin.yaml      # Required for multi-language
├── pyproject.toml         # or requirements.txt
└── __main__.py            # Component + entry point
```

**PulumiPlugin.yaml:**
```yaml
runtime: python
```

**Component with proper Args class (__main__.py):**
```python
from typing import Optional
import pulumi
from pulumi import Input, Output, ResourceOptions
from pulumi.provider.experimental import component_provider_host
import pulumi_aws as aws


class SecureBucketArgs:
    """Args class - use Input types for all properties."""

    def __init__(
        self,
        bucket_name: Input[str],
        enable_versioning: Optional[Input[bool]] = None,
        tags: Optional[Input[dict]] = None,
    ):
        self.bucket_name = bucket_name
        self.enable_versioning = enable_versioning or True
        self.tags = tags


class SecureBucket(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    """A secure S3 bucket with encryption and versioning."""

    bucket_id: Output[str]
    bucket_arn: Output[str]

    # Constructor must have 'args' parameter with type annotation
    def __init__(
        self,
        name: str,
        args: SecureBucketArgs,
        opts: Optional[ResourceOptions] = None,
    ):
        super().__init__("myorg:storage:SecureBucket", name, {}, opts)

        bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
            f"{name}-bucket",
            bucket=args.bucket_name,
            versioning={"enabled": args.enable_versioning},
            server_side_encryption_configuration={
                "rule": {
                    "apply_server_side_encryption_by_default": {
                        "sse_algorithm": "AES256",
                    },
                },
            },
            tags=args.tags,
            opts=ResourceOptions(parent=self),
        )

        self.bucket_id = bucket.id
        self.bucket_arn = bucket.arn

        self.register_outputs({
            "bucket_id": self.bucket_id,
            "bucket_arn": self.bucket_arn,
        })


# Entry point for multi-language support
if __name__ == "__main__":
    component_provider_host(
        name="python-components",
        components=[SecureBucket],
    )
```

**Publishing for multi-language consumption:**
```bash
# Consume from git repository
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component

# With version tag
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component@v1.0.0

# Local development
pulumi package add /path/to/local/my-component
```

**Multi-language Args requirements:**
- Use `pulumi.Input[T]` type hints for all properties
- Args class must have `__init__` with typed parameters
- Constructor must have `args` parameter with type annotation
- Use `Optional[Input[T]]` for optional properties

## Best Practices

### Security
- Use Pulumi ESC for all secrets - never commit secrets to stack config files
- Enable OIDC authentication instead of static credentials
- Use dynamic secrets with short TTLs when possible
- Apply least-privilege IAM policies

### Code Organization
- Use ComponentResources for reusable infrastructure patterns
- Leverage Python's type hints for better IDE support
- Keep stack-specific config in ESC environments
- Use stack references for cross-stack dependencies
- Prefer Args classes for type safety, or dict literals for brevity

### Deployment
- Always run `pulumi preview` before `pulumi up`
- Use ESC environment versioning and tags for releases
- Implement proper tagging strategy for all resources

### Virtual Environments
- Always use virtual environments (`venv`, `poetry`, or `uv`)
- Specify toolchain in Pulumi.yaml for consistency

## Common Commands

```bash
# ESC Commands
esc env init <org>/<project>/<env>    # Create environment
esc env edit <org>/<env>              # Edit environment
esc env get <org>/<env>               # View resolved values
esc run <org>/<env> -- <command>      # Run with env vars
esc env version tag <org>/<env> <tag> # Tag version

# Pulumi Commands
pulumi new python                      # New project
pulumi config env add <org>/<env>     # Link ESC environment
pulumi preview                         # Preview changes
pulumi up                              # Deploy
pulumi stack output                    # View outputs
pulumi destroy                         # Tear down

# Dependency Management
pip install -r requirements.txt        # Install deps (pip)
poetry add pulumi-aws                  # Add dep (poetry)
uv add pulumi-aws                      # Add dep (uv)
```

## Python-Specific Considerations

### Virtual Environment Setup

**Using pip (default):**
```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: pip
    virtualenv: venv
```

**Using poetry:**
```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: poetry
```

**Using uv:**
```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: uv
    virtualenv: .venv
```

### Type Checking

```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml - Enable type checking
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    typechecker: mypy  # or pyright
```

### Input Type Options

```python
# Using Args classes (type-safe)
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "bucket",
    versioning=aws.s3.BucketVersioningArgs(enabled=True),
)

# Using dict literals (concise)
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "bucket",
    versioning={"enabled": True},
)
```

## References

- [references/pulumi-esc.md](references/pulumi-esc.md) - ESC patterns and commands
- [references/pulumi-patterns.md](references/pulumi-patterns.md) - Common infrastructure patterns
- [references/pulumi-python.md](references/pulumi-python.md) - Python-specific guidance
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md) - AWS best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md) - Azure best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md) - GCP best practices

Commit message:

feat: Add pulumi-cli skill and improve existing skills (#8)
- Add new pulumi-cli skill with CLI commands, environment variables, and state management documentation
- Update ESC commands from `esc` to `pulumi env` across TypeScript, Go, and Python skills
- Improve Neo skill with better approval detection via events instead of task status
- Enhance neo_task.py script with improved event parsing and approval request handling
- Update skill descriptions to be more trigger-focused
- Simplify marketplace.json structure
- Bump all skills to version 1.2.0

pulumi-python/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: pulumi-python
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "create Pulumi Python project", "write Pulumi Python code", "use Pulumi ESC with Python", "set up OIDC for Pulumi", or mentions Pulumi infrastructure automation with Python.
version: 1.1.0
---

# Pulumi Python Skill

## Development Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

```bash
# Create new Python project
pulumi new python

# Or with a cloud-specific template
pulumi new aws-python
pulumi new azure-python
pulumi new gcp-python
```

**Project structure:**
```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml      # Stack config (use ESC instead)
├── __main__.py
├── requirements.txt     # or pyproject.toml
└── venv/                # Virtual environment
```

### 2. Pulumi ESC Integration

Instead of using `pulumi config set` or stack config files, use Pulumi ESC for centralized secrets and configuration.

**Link ESC environment to stack:**
```bash
# Create ESC environment
esc env init myorg/myproject-dev

# Edit environment
esc env edit myorg/myproject-dev

# Link to Pulumi stack
pulumi config env add myorg/myproject-dev
```

**ESC environment definition (YAML):**
```yaml
values:
  # Static configuration
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    myapp:instanceType: t3.medium

  # Dynamic OIDC credentials for AWS
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/pulumi-oidc
          sessionName: pulumi-deploy

  # Pull secrets from AWS Secrets Manager
  secrets:
    fn::open::aws-secrets:
      region: us-west-2
      login: ${aws.login}
      get:
        dbPassword:
          secretId: prod/database/password

  # Expose to environment variables
  environmentVariables:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${aws.login.accessKeyId}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${aws.login.secretAccessKey}
    AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: ${aws.login.sessionToken}
```

### 3. Python Patterns

**Basic resource creation:**
```python
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws

# Get configuration from ESC
config = pulumi.Config()
instance_type = config.require("instanceType")

# Create resources with proper tagging
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "my-bucket",
    versioning=aws.s3.BucketVersioningArgs(
        enabled=True,
    ),
    server_side_encryption_configuration=aws.s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationArgs(
        rule=aws.s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleArgs(
            apply_server_side_encryption_by_default=aws.s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefaultArgs(
                sse_algorithm="AES256",
            ),
        ),
    ),
    tags={
        "Environment": pulumi.get_stack(),
        "ManagedBy": "Pulumi",
    },
)

# Export outputs
pulumi.export("bucket_name", bucket.id)
pulumi.export("bucket_arn", bucket.arn)
```

**Using dictionary literals (concise alternative):**
```python
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws

bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "my-bucket",
    versioning={"enabled": True},
    server_side_encryption_configuration={
        "rule": {
            "apply_server_side_encryption_by_default": {
                "sse_algorithm": "AES256",
            },
        },
    },
    tags={
        "Environment": pulumi.get_stack(),
        "ManagedBy": "Pulumi",
    },
)
```

**Component resources for reusability:**
```python
import pulumi
from pulumi_aws import lb


class WebServiceArgs:
    def __init__(self, port: pulumi.Input[int], image_uri: pulumi.Input[str]):
        self.port = port
        self.image_uri = image_uri


class WebService(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    url: pulumi.Output[str]

    def __init__(self, name: str, args: WebServiceArgs, opts: pulumi.ResourceOptions = None):
        super().__init__("custom:app:WebService", name, {}, opts)

        # Create child resources with parent=self
        load_balancer = lb.LoadBalancer(
            f"{name}-lb",
            load_balancer_type="application",
            # ... configuration
            opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=self),
        )

        self.url = load_balancer.dns_name

        self.register_outputs({
            "url": self.url,
        })
```

**Stack references for cross-stack dependencies:**
```python
import pulumi

# Reference outputs from networking stack
networking_stack = pulumi.StackReference("myorg/networking/prod")
vpc_id = networking_stack.get_output("vpc_id")
subnet_ids = networking_stack.get_output("private_subnet_ids")
```

**Working with Outputs:**
```python
import pulumi

# Apply transformation
uppercase_name = bucket.id.apply(lambda id: id.upper())

# Combine multiple outputs
combined = pulumi.Output.all(bucket.id, bucket.arn).apply(
    lambda args: f"Bucket {args[0]} has ARN {args[1]}"
)

# Using Output.concat for string interpolation
message = pulumi.Output.concat("Bucket ARN: ", bucket.arn)

# Conditional resources
is_prod = pulumi.get_stack() == "prod"
if is_prod:
    alarm = aws.cloudwatch.MetricAlarm(
        "alarm",
        # ... configuration
    )
```

### 4. Using ESC with esc run

Run any command with ESC environment variables injected:

```bash
# Run pulumi commands with ESC credentials
esc run myorg/aws-dev -- pulumi up

# Run tests with secrets
esc run myorg/test-env -- pytest

# Open environment and export to shell
esc open myorg/myproject-dev --format shell
```

### 5. Async Patterns

```python
import pulumi
import asyncio

# Pulumi programs are single-threaded
# Use Output.from_input for async-like patterns

async def fetch_data():
    # Async operation
    return {"key": "value"}

# Convert async result to Output
data = pulumi.Output.from_input(asyncio.get_event_loop().run_until_complete(fetch_data()))
```

### 6. Multi-Language Components

Create components in Python that can be consumed from any Pulumi language (TypeScript, Go, C#, Java, YAML).

**Project structure for multi-language component:**
```
my-component/
├── PulumiPlugin.yaml      # Required for multi-language
├── pyproject.toml         # or requirements.txt
└── __main__.py            # Component + entry point
```

**PulumiPlugin.yaml:**
```yaml
runtime: python
```

**Component with proper Args class (__main__.py):**
```python
from typing import Optional
import pulumi
from pulumi import Input, Output, ResourceOptions
from pulumi.provider.experimental import component_provider_host
import pulumi_aws as aws


class SecureBucketArgs:
    """Args class - use Input types for all properties."""

    def __init__(
        self,
        bucket_name: Input[str],
        enable_versioning: Optional[Input[bool]] = None,
        tags: Optional[Input[dict]] = None,
    ):
        self.bucket_name = bucket_name
        self.enable_versioning = enable_versioning or True
        self.tags = tags


class SecureBucket(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    """A secure S3 bucket with encryption and versioning."""

    bucket_id: Output[str]
    bucket_arn: Output[str]

    # Constructor must have 'args' parameter with type annotation
    def __init__(
        self,
        name: str,
        args: SecureBucketArgs,
        opts: Optional[ResourceOptions] = None,
    ):
        super().__init__("myorg:storage:SecureBucket", name, {}, opts)

        bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
            f"{name}-bucket",
            bucket=args.bucket_name,
            versioning={"enabled": args.enable_versioning},
            server_side_encryption_configuration={
                "rule": {
                    "apply_server_side_encryption_by_default": {
                        "sse_algorithm": "AES256",
                    },
                },
            },
            tags=args.tags,
            opts=ResourceOptions(parent=self),
        )

        self.bucket_id = bucket.id
        self.bucket_arn = bucket.arn

        self.register_outputs({
            "bucket_id": self.bucket_id,
            "bucket_arn": self.bucket_arn,
        })


# Entry point for multi-language support
if __name__ == "__main__":
    component_provider_host(
        name="python-components",
        components=[SecureBucket],
    )
```

**Publishing for multi-language consumption:**
```bash
# Consume from git repository
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component

# With version tag
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component@v1.0.0

# Local development
pulumi package add /path/to/local/my-component
```

**Multi-language Args requirements:**
- Use `pulumi.Input[T]` type hints for all properties
- Args class must have `__init__` with typed parameters
- Constructor must have `args` parameter with type annotation
- Use `Optional[Input[T]]` for optional properties

## Best Practices

### Security
- Use Pulumi ESC for all secrets - never commit secrets to stack config files
- Enable OIDC authentication instead of static credentials
- Use dynamic secrets with short TTLs when possible
- Apply least-privilege IAM policies

### Code Organization
- Use ComponentResources for reusable infrastructure patterns
- Leverage Python's type hints for better IDE support
- Keep stack-specific config in ESC environments
- Use stack references for cross-stack dependencies
- Prefer Args classes for type safety, or dict literals for brevity

### Deployment
- Always run `pulumi preview` before `pulumi up`
- Use ESC environment versioning and tags for releases
- Implement proper tagging strategy for all resources

### Virtual Environments
- Always use virtual environments (`venv`, `poetry`, or `uv`)
- Specify toolchain in Pulumi.yaml for consistency

## Common Commands

```bash
# ESC Commands
esc env init <org>/<project>/<env>    # Create environment
esc env edit <org>/<env>              # Edit environment
esc env get <org>/<env>               # View resolved values
esc run <org>/<env> -- <command>      # Run with env vars
esc env version tag <org>/<env> <tag> # Tag version

# Pulumi Commands
pulumi new python                      # New project
pulumi config env add <org>/<env>     # Link ESC environment
pulumi preview                         # Preview changes
pulumi up                              # Deploy
pulumi stack output                    # View outputs
pulumi destroy                         # Tear down

# Dependency Management
pip install -r requirements.txt        # Install deps (pip)
poetry add pulumi-aws                  # Add dep (poetry)
uv add pulumi-aws                      # Add dep (uv)
```

## Python-Specific Considerations

### Virtual Environment Setup

**Using pip (default):**
```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: pip
    virtualenv: venv
```

**Using poetry:**
```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: poetry
```

**Using uv:**
```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: uv
    virtualenv: .venv
```

### Type Checking

```yaml
# Pulumi.yaml - Enable type checking
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    typechecker: mypy  # or pyright
```

### Input Type Options

```python
# Using Args classes (type-safe)
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "bucket",
    versioning=aws.s3.BucketVersioningArgs(enabled=True),
)

# Using dict literals (concise)
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket(
    "bucket",
    versioning={"enabled": True},
)
```

## References

- [references/pulumi-esc.md](references/pulumi-esc.md) - ESC patterns and commands
- [references/pulumi-patterns.md](references/pulumi-patterns.md) - Common infrastructure patterns
- [references/pulumi-python.md](references/pulumi-python.md) - Python-specific guidance
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md) - AWS best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md) - Azure best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md) - GCP best practices
