pulumi-neo/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: pulumi-neo
description: Pulumi Neo AI-powered infrastructure automation agent. Use when working with Pulumi Neo for conversational infrastructure management, creating Neo tasks, monitoring task progress, infrastructure analysis, maintenance operations, or automating multi-step cloud workflows through natural language.
---

# Pulumi Neo Skill

Pulumi Neo is an AI agent for platform engineers that enables conversational infrastructure management through natural language.

## Prerequisites

- **Pulumi Cloud account** with Neo access
- **PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN** environment variable set with your Personal Access Token
- **Organization**: Required for all Neo API calls

## Detecting Organization

```bash
# Get current Pulumi organization from CLI
pulumi org get-default

# If no default org or using self-managed backend, ask user for organization name
```

If `pulumi org get-default` returns an error or shows a non-cloud backend, prompt the user for their Pulumi Cloud organization name.

## Claude Code Integration

**RECOMMENDED: Use MCP tools directly** - they work natively with Claude Code:
```
mcp__pulumi__neo-bridge      # Create and interact with Neo tasks
mcp__pulumi__neo-get-tasks   # List existing tasks
mcp__pulumi__neo-continue-task # Continue polling a task
```

**If using the Python script, ALWAYS add `--no-poll`:**
```bash
# REQUIRED: --no-poll prevents blocking (script will hang without it)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org> --message "Your message" --no-poll

# Check events separately
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org> --task-id <task-id> --get-events
```

**WARNING:** Never run the script without `--no-poll` in Claude Code - the polling loop will block indefinitely.

## Using the Python Script

The script handles Neo task creation, polling, and management:

```bash
# Create a task and poll for updates (interactive/terminal use)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --message "Help me optimize my Pulumi stack"

# Create task without polling (CI/CD or programmatic use)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --message "Analyze this" --no-poll

# Create task with stack context
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> \
  --message "Analyze this stack" \
  --stack-name prod --stack-project my-infra --no-poll

# Create task with repository context
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> \
  --message "Review this infrastructure code" \
  --repo-name my-repo --repo-org my-github-org --no-poll

# List existing tasks
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --list

# Fetch current events (single request, no polling)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id> --get-events

# Poll an existing task for updates (interactive)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id>

# Send approval for a pending request
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id> --approve

# Cancel a pending request
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id> --cancel
```

## Neo Task Workflow

### 1. Creating Tasks

Tasks are created with a natural language message describing what you want Neo to do:

- **Infrastructure analysis**: "Analyze my production stack for security issues"
- **Maintenance operations**: "Help me upgrade my Kubernetes cluster"
- **Configuration changes**: "Add monitoring to my Lambda functions"
- **Multi-step workflows**: "Set up a complete CI/CD pipeline for this project"

### 2. Entity Context

Provide context to Neo by attaching entities:

| Entity Type | Use Case |
|-------------|----------|
| `stack` | Reference a Pulumi stack (name + project) |
| `repository` | Reference a code repository (name + org + forge) |
| `pull_request` | Reference a PR (number + merged status + repository) |
| `policy_issue` | Reference a governance policy issue (id) |

### 3. Task Status

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `pending` | Task is queued |
| `running` | Neo is processing the task |
| `waiting_for_approval` | Neo needs user confirmation to proceed |
| `completed` | Task finished successfully |
| `failed` | Task encountered an error |

### 4. Approval Flow

When Neo requires confirmation for an operation:

1. Task status changes to `waiting_for_approval`
2. Event contains `approval_request_id`
3. User reviews the proposed changes
4. Send approval or cancellation via the API

## Common Workflows

### Analyze Infrastructure

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "What security improvements can I make to my AWS infrastructure?" \
  --stack-name prod --stack-project aws-infra
```

### Fix Policy Violations

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "Help me fix the policy violations in my production stack"
```

### Generate Pulumi Code

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "Create a new Pulumi TypeScript project for a containerized web app on AWS ECS"
```

### Review Pull Request

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "Review the infrastructure changes in this PR" \
  --repo-name infra --repo-org myorg --repo-forge github
```

## Best Practices

### Clear Instructions
- Be specific about what you want Neo to do
- Include relevant context (stack names, regions, requirements)
- Specify constraints (budget, compliance requirements)

### Entity Context
- Always attach relevant stack or repository entities
- This helps Neo understand the scope of your request

### Approval Workflow
- Review Neo's proposed changes carefully before approving
- Neo generates pull requests for infrastructure changes
- Use the preview feature to understand impact before deployment

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Errors (401)
```bash
# Verify token is set
echo $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN

# Test authentication
curl -H "Authorization: token $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN" \
  https://api.pulumi.com/api/user
```

### Organization Not Found (404)
- Verify organization name with `pulumi org get-default`
- Ensure your token has access to the organization

### Cannot Respond While Request Pending (409)
- Wait for Neo to finish processing before sending new messages
- Poll for status updates before responding

## References

- [references/pulumi-neo-api.md](references/pulumi-neo-api.md) - Complete API documentation

Commit message:

feat: Add pulumi-cli skill and improve existing skills (#8)
- Add new pulumi-cli skill with CLI commands, environment variables, and state management documentation
- Update ESC commands from `esc` to `pulumi env` across TypeScript, Go, and Python skills
- Improve Neo skill with better approval detection via events instead of task status
- Enhance neo_task.py script with improved event parsing and approval request handling
- Update skill descriptions to be more trigger-focused
- Simplify marketplace.json structure
- Bump all skills to version 1.2.0

pulumi-neo/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: pulumi-neo
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "create Neo task", "use Pulumi Neo", "analyze infrastructure with Neo", "automate infrastructure with AI", or mentions conversational infrastructure management through natural language.
version: 1.1.0
---

# Pulumi Neo Skill

Pulumi Neo is an AI agent for platform engineers that enables conversational infrastructure management through natural language.

## Prerequisites

- **Pulumi Cloud account** with Neo access
- **PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN** environment variable set with your Personal Access Token
- **Organization**: Required for all Neo API calls

## Detecting Organization

```bash
# Get current Pulumi organization from CLI
pulumi org get-default

# If no default org or using self-managed backend, ask user for organization name
```

If `pulumi org get-default` returns an error or shows a non-cloud backend, prompt the user for their Pulumi Cloud organization name.

## Claude Code Integration

**RECOMMENDED: Use MCP tools directly** - they work natively with Claude Code:
```
mcp__pulumi__neo-bridge      # Create and interact with Neo tasks
mcp__pulumi__neo-get-tasks   # List existing tasks
mcp__pulumi__neo-continue-task # Continue polling a task
```

**If using the Python script, ALWAYS add `--no-poll`:**
```bash
# REQUIRED: --no-poll prevents blocking (script will hang without it)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org> --message "Your message" --no-poll

# Check events separately
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org> --task-id <task-id> --get-events
```

**WARNING:** Never run the script without `--no-poll` in Claude Code - the polling loop will block indefinitely.

## Using the Python Script

The script handles Neo task creation, polling, and management:

```bash
# Create a task and poll for updates (interactive/terminal use)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --message "Help me optimize my Pulumi stack"

# Create task without polling (CI/CD or programmatic use)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --message "Analyze this" --no-poll

# Create task with stack context
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> \
  --message "Analyze this stack" \
  --stack-name prod --stack-project my-infra --no-poll

# Create task with repository context
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> \
  --message "Review this infrastructure code" \
  --repo-name my-repo --repo-org my-github-org --no-poll

# List existing tasks
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --list

# Fetch current events (single request, no polling)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id> --get-events

# Poll an existing task for updates (interactive)
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id>

# Send approval for a pending request
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id> --approve

# Cancel a pending request
python scripts/neo_task.py --org <org-name> --task-id <task-id> --cancel
```

## Neo Task Workflow

### 1. Creating Tasks

Tasks are created with a natural language message describing what you want Neo to do:

- **Infrastructure analysis**: "Analyze my production stack for security issues"
- **Maintenance operations**: "Help me upgrade my Kubernetes cluster"
- **Configuration changes**: "Add monitoring to my Lambda functions"
- **Multi-step workflows**: "Set up a complete CI/CD pipeline for this project"

### 2. Entity Context

Provide context to Neo by attaching entities:

| Entity Type | Use Case |
|-------------|----------|
| `stack` | Reference a Pulumi stack (name + project) |
| `repository` | Reference a code repository (name + org + forge) |
| `pull_request` | Reference a PR (number + merged status + repository) |
| `policy_issue` | Reference a governance policy issue (id) |

### 3. Task Status

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `running` | Neo is actively processing the task |
| `idle` | Task is waiting for input or has finished processing |

**Note:** Task completion and approval requests are determined by examining events, not task status.

### 4. Approval Flow

When Neo requires confirmation for an operation:

1. Task status remains `running` or transitions to `idle`
2. An `agentResponse` event contains `tool_calls` with an `approval_request` tool
3. The `approval_request_id` is found in the tool call parameters
4. User reviews the proposed changes
5. Send approval or cancellation via the API

**Detecting approvals:** Check events for `eventBody.tool_calls` containing approval requests rather than relying on task status.

## Common Workflows

### Analyze Infrastructure

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "What security improvements can I make to my AWS infrastructure?" \
  --stack-name prod --stack-project aws-infra
```

### Fix Policy Violations

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "Help me fix the policy violations in my production stack"
```

### Generate Pulumi Code

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "Create a new Pulumi TypeScript project for a containerized web app on AWS ECS"
```

### Review Pull Request

```bash
python scripts/neo_task.py --org myorg \
  --message "Review the infrastructure changes in this PR" \
  --repo-name infra --repo-org myorg --repo-forge github
```

## Best Practices

### Clear Instructions
- Be specific about what you want Neo to do
- Include relevant context (stack names, regions, requirements)
- Specify constraints (budget, compliance requirements)

### Entity Context
- Always attach relevant stack or repository entities
- This helps Neo understand the scope of your request

### Approval Workflow
- Review Neo's proposed changes carefully before approving
- Neo generates pull requests for infrastructure changes
- Use the preview feature to understand impact before deployment

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Errors (401)
```bash
# Verify token is set
echo $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN

# Test authentication
curl -H "Authorization: token $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN" \
  https://api.pulumi.com/api/user
```

### Organization Not Found (404)
- Verify organization name with `pulumi org get-default`
- Ensure your token has access to the organization

### Cannot Respond While Request Pending (409)
- Wait for Neo to finish processing before sending new messages
- Poll for status updates before responding

## References

- [references/pulumi-neo-api.md](references/pulumi-neo-api.md) - Complete API documentation
