pulumi-go/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: pulumi-go
description: Pulumi infrastructure as code using Go with Pulumi Cloud and ESC integration. Use when working with Pulumi Go projects, ESC environments, dynamic secrets, OIDC credentials, or infrastructure automation with Golang.
---

# Pulumi Go Skill

## Development Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

```bash
# Create new Go project
pulumi new go

# Or with a cloud-specific template
pulumi new aws-go
pulumi new azure-go
pulumi new gcp-go
```

**Project structure:**
```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml      # Stack config (use ESC instead)
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go
```

### 2. Pulumi ESC Integration

Instead of using `pulumi config set` or stack config files, use Pulumi ESC for centralized secrets and configuration.

**Link ESC environment to stack:**
```bash
# Create ESC environment
esc env init myorg/myproject-dev

# Edit environment
esc env edit myorg/myproject-dev

# Link to Pulumi stack
pulumi config env add myorg/myproject-dev
```

**ESC environment definition (YAML):**
```yaml
values:
  # Static configuration
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    myapp:instanceType: t3.medium

  # Dynamic OIDC credentials for AWS
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/pulumi-oidc
          sessionName: pulumi-deploy

  # Pull secrets from AWS Secrets Manager
  secrets:
    fn::open::aws-secrets:
      region: us-west-2
      login: ${aws.login}
      get:
        dbPassword:
          secretId: prod/database/password

  # Expose to environment variables
  environmentVariables:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${aws.login.accessKeyId}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${aws.login.secretAccessKey}
    AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: ${aws.login.sessionToken}
```

### 3. Go Patterns

**Basic resource creation:**
```go
package main

import (
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6/go/aws/s3"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Get configuration from ESC
        cfg := config.New(ctx, "")
        instanceType := cfg.Require("instanceType")

        // Create resources with proper tagging
        bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "my-bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{
            Versioning: &s3.BucketVersioningArgs{
                Enabled: pulumi.Bool(true),
            },
            ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationArgs{
                Rule: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleArgs{
                    ApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefaultArgs{
                        SseAlgorithm: pulumi.String("AES256"),
                    },
                },
            },
            Tags: pulumi.StringMap{
                "Environment": pulumi.String(ctx.Stack()),
                "ManagedBy":   pulumi.String("Pulumi"),
            },
        })
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        // Export outputs
        ctx.Export("bucketName", bucket.ID())
        ctx.Export("bucketArn", bucket.Arn)

        return nil
    })
}
```

**Component resources for reusability:**
```go
package main

import (
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6/go/aws/lb"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

type WebServiceArgs struct {
    Port     pulumi.IntInput
    ImageUri pulumi.StringInput
}

type WebService struct {
    pulumi.ResourceState

    URL pulumi.StringOutput `pulumi:"url"`
}

func NewWebService(ctx *pulumi.Context, name string, args *WebServiceArgs, opts ...pulumi.ResourceOption) (*WebService, error) {
    component := &WebService{}
    err := ctx.RegisterComponentResource("custom:app:WebService", name, component, opts...)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    // Create child resources with pulumi.Parent(component)
    loadBalancer, err := lb.NewLoadBalancer(ctx, name+"-lb", &lb.LoadBalancerArgs{
        LoadBalancerType: pulumi.String("application"),
        // ... configuration
    }, pulumi.Parent(component))
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    component.URL = loadBalancer.DnsName

    ctx.RegisterResourceOutputs(component, pulumi.Map{
        "url": component.URL,
    })

    return component, nil
}
```

**Stack references for cross-stack dependencies:**
```go
package main

import (
    "fmt"

    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Reference outputs from networking stack
        networkingStack, err := pulumi.NewStackReference(ctx, "myorg/networking/prod", nil)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        vpcId := networkingStack.GetStringOutput(pulumi.String("vpcId"))
        subnetIds := networkingStack.GetOutput(pulumi.String("privateSubnetIds"))

        // Use in resource creation
        ctx.Export("vpcId", vpcId)

        return nil
    })
}
```

**Working with Outputs:**
```go
package main

import (
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Apply transformation
        uppercaseName := bucket.ID().ApplyT(func(id string) string {
            return strings.ToUpper(id)
        }).(pulumi.StringOutput)

        // Combine multiple outputs
        combined := pulumi.All(bucket.ID(), bucket.Arn).ApplyT(
            func(args []interface{}) string {
                id := args[0].(string)
                arn := args[1].(string)
                return fmt.Sprintf("Bucket %s has ARN %s", id, arn)
            },
        ).(pulumi.StringOutput)

        // Conditional resources
        if ctx.Stack() == "prod" {
            _, err := cloudwatch.NewMetricAlarm(ctx, "alarm", &cloudwatch.MetricAlarmArgs{
                // ... configuration
            })
            if err != nil {
                return err
            }
        }

        return nil
    })
}
```

### 4. Using ESC with esc run

Run any command with ESC environment variables injected:

```bash
# Run pulumi commands with ESC credentials
esc run myorg/aws-dev -- pulumi up

# Run tests with secrets
esc run myorg/test-env -- go test ./...

# Open environment and export to shell
esc open myorg/myproject-dev --format shell
```

### 5. Error Handling Patterns

```go
func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Always check errors
        bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{})
        if err != nil {
            return fmt.Errorf("failed to create bucket: %w", err)
        }

        // Chain operations with error handling
        policy, err := s3.NewBucketPolicy(ctx, "policy", &s3.BucketPolicyArgs{
            Bucket: bucket.ID(),
            Policy: bucket.Arn.ApplyT(func(arn string) string {
                return fmt.Sprintf(`{"Version":"2012-10-17",...}`, arn)
            }).(pulumi.StringOutput),
        })
        if err != nil {
            return fmt.Errorf("failed to create bucket policy: %w", err)
        }

        return nil
    })
}
```

### 6. Multi-Language Components

Create components in Go that can be consumed from any Pulumi language (TypeScript, Python, C#, Java, YAML).

**Project structure for multi-language component:**
```
my-component/
├── PulumiPlugin.yaml      # Required for multi-language
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go                # Component + entry point
```

**PulumiPlugin.yaml:**
```yaml
runtime: go
```

**Component with proper Args struct (main.go):**
```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "log"

    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6/go/aws/s3"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-go-provider/infer"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

// Args struct - use Input types for all properties
type SecureBucketArgs struct {
    BucketName       pulumi.StringInput `pulumi:"bucketName"`
    EnableVersioning pulumi.BoolInput   `pulumi:"enableVersioning,optional"`
    Tags             pulumi.StringMapInput `pulumi:"tags,optional"`
}

type SecureBucket struct {
    pulumi.ResourceState

    BucketId  pulumi.StringOutput `pulumi:"bucketId"`
    BucketArn pulumi.StringOutput `pulumi:"bucketArn"`
}

func NewSecureBucket(ctx *pulumi.Context, name string, args *SecureBucketArgs, opts ...pulumi.ResourceOption) (*SecureBucket, error) {
    component := &SecureBucket{}
    err := ctx.RegisterComponentResource("myorg:storage:SecureBucket", name, component, opts...)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, name+"-bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{
        Bucket: args.BucketName,
        Versioning: &s3.BucketVersioningArgs{
            Enabled: args.EnableVersioning,
        },
        ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationArgs{
            Rule: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleArgs{
                ApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefaultArgs{
                    SseAlgorithm: pulumi.String("AES256"),
                },
            },
        },
        Tags: args.Tags,
    }, pulumi.Parent(component))
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    component.BucketId = bucket.ID().ToStringOutput()
    component.BucketArn = bucket.Arn

    ctx.RegisterResourceOutputs(component, pulumi.Map{
        "bucketId":  component.BucketId,
        "bucketArn": component.BucketArn,
    })

    return component, nil
}

// Entry point for multi-language support
func main() {
    prov, err := infer.NewProviderBuilder().
        WithNamespace("myorg").
        WithComponents(
            infer.ComponentF(NewSecureBucket),
        ).
        Build()
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err.Error())
    }
    _ = prov.Run(context.Background(), "go-components", "v0.0.1")
}
```

**Publishing for multi-language consumption:**
```bash
# Consume from git repository
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component

# With version tag
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component@v1.0.0

# Local development
pulumi package add /path/to/local/my-component
```

**Multi-language Args requirements:**
- Use `pulumi.*Input` types for all properties
- Use `pulumi:"fieldName"` struct tags
- Add `,optional` tag suffix for optional fields
- Avoid interface{} or unsupported types

## Best Practices

### Security
- Use Pulumi ESC for all secrets - never commit secrets to stack config files
- Enable OIDC authentication instead of static credentials
- Use dynamic secrets with short TTLs when possible
- Apply least-privilege IAM policies

### Code Organization
- Use Component Resources for reusable infrastructure patterns
- Leverage Go's type system for configuration validation
- Keep stack-specific config in ESC environments
- Use stack references for cross-stack dependencies
- Handle all errors explicitly

### Deployment
- Always run `pulumi preview` before `pulumi up`
- Use ESC environment versioning and tags for releases
- Implement proper tagging strategy for all resources
- Build your Go program before running Pulumi: `go build -o $(basename $(pwd))`

## Common Commands

```bash
# ESC Commands
esc env init <org>/<project>/<env>    # Create environment
esc env edit <org>/<env>              # Edit environment
esc env get <org>/<env>               # View resolved values
esc run <org>/<env> -- <command>      # Run with env vars
esc env version tag <org>/<env> <tag> # Tag version

# Pulumi Commands
pulumi new go                          # New project
pulumi config env add <org>/<env>     # Link ESC environment
go build -o $(basename $(pwd))         # Build Go binary
pulumi preview                         # Preview changes
pulumi up                              # Deploy
pulumi stack output                    # View outputs
pulumi destroy                         # Tear down
```

## Go-Specific Considerations

### Module Management

```bash
# Initialize Go modules
go mod init myproject

# Add Pulumi dependencies
go get github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3
go get github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6

# Update dependencies
go mod tidy
```

### Building

```bash
# Build before running Pulumi
go build -o $(basename $(pwd))

# Or let Pulumi build automatically (slower)
pulumi up
```

## References

- [references/pulumi-esc.md](references/pulumi-esc.md) - ESC patterns and commands
- [references/pulumi-patterns.md](references/pulumi-patterns.md) - Common infrastructure patterns
- [references/pulumi-go.md](references/pulumi-go.md) - Go-specific guidance
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md) - AWS best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md) - Azure best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md) - GCP best practices

Commit message:

feat: Add pulumi-cli skill and improve existing skills (#8)
- Add new pulumi-cli skill with CLI commands, environment variables, and state management documentation
- Update ESC commands from `esc` to `pulumi env` across TypeScript, Go, and Python skills
- Improve Neo skill with better approval detection via events instead of task status
- Enhance neo_task.py script with improved event parsing and approval request handling
- Update skill descriptions to be more trigger-focused
- Simplify marketplace.json structure
- Bump all skills to version 1.2.0

pulumi-go/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: pulumi-go
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "create Pulumi Go project", "write Pulumi Go code", "use Pulumi ESC with Go", "set up OIDC for Pulumi", or mentions Pulumi infrastructure automation with Golang.
version: 1.1.0
---

# Pulumi Go Skill

## Development Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

```bash
# Create new Go project
pulumi new go

# Or with a cloud-specific template
pulumi new aws-go
pulumi new azure-go
pulumi new gcp-go
```

**Project structure:**
```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml      # Stack config (use ESC instead)
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go
```

### 2. Pulumi ESC Integration

Instead of using `pulumi config set` or stack config files, use Pulumi ESC for centralized secrets and configuration.

**Link ESC environment to stack:**
```bash
# Create ESC environment
esc env init myorg/myproject-dev

# Edit environment
esc env edit myorg/myproject-dev

# Link to Pulumi stack
pulumi config env add myorg/myproject-dev
```

**ESC environment definition (YAML):**
```yaml
values:
  # Static configuration
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    myapp:instanceType: t3.medium

  # Dynamic OIDC credentials for AWS
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/pulumi-oidc
          sessionName: pulumi-deploy

  # Pull secrets from AWS Secrets Manager
  secrets:
    fn::open::aws-secrets:
      region: us-west-2
      login: ${aws.login}
      get:
        dbPassword:
          secretId: prod/database/password

  # Expose to environment variables
  environmentVariables:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${aws.login.accessKeyId}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${aws.login.secretAccessKey}
    AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: ${aws.login.sessionToken}
```

### 3. Go Patterns

**Basic resource creation:**
```go
package main

import (
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6/go/aws/s3"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Get configuration from ESC
        cfg := config.New(ctx, "")
        instanceType := cfg.Require("instanceType")

        // Create resources with proper tagging
        bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "my-bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{
            Versioning: &s3.BucketVersioningArgs{
                Enabled: pulumi.Bool(true),
            },
            ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationArgs{
                Rule: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleArgs{
                    ApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefaultArgs{
                        SseAlgorithm: pulumi.String("AES256"),
                    },
                },
            },
            Tags: pulumi.StringMap{
                "Environment": pulumi.String(ctx.Stack()),
                "ManagedBy":   pulumi.String("Pulumi"),
            },
        })
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        // Export outputs
        ctx.Export("bucketName", bucket.ID())
        ctx.Export("bucketArn", bucket.Arn)

        return nil
    })
}
```

**Component resources for reusability:**
```go
package main

import (
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6/go/aws/lb"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

type WebServiceArgs struct {
    Port     pulumi.IntInput
    ImageUri pulumi.StringInput
}

type WebService struct {
    pulumi.ResourceState

    URL pulumi.StringOutput `pulumi:"url"`
}

func NewWebService(ctx *pulumi.Context, name string, args *WebServiceArgs, opts ...pulumi.ResourceOption) (*WebService, error) {
    component := &WebService{}
    err := ctx.RegisterComponentResource("custom:app:WebService", name, component, opts...)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    // Create child resources with pulumi.Parent(component)
    loadBalancer, err := lb.NewLoadBalancer(ctx, name+"-lb", &lb.LoadBalancerArgs{
        LoadBalancerType: pulumi.String("application"),
        // ... configuration
    }, pulumi.Parent(component))
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    component.URL = loadBalancer.DnsName

    ctx.RegisterResourceOutputs(component, pulumi.Map{
        "url": component.URL,
    })

    return component, nil
}
```

**Stack references for cross-stack dependencies:**
```go
package main

import (
    "fmt"

    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Reference outputs from networking stack
        networkingStack, err := pulumi.NewStackReference(ctx, "myorg/networking/prod", nil)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        vpcId := networkingStack.GetStringOutput(pulumi.String("vpcId"))
        subnetIds := networkingStack.GetOutput(pulumi.String("privateSubnetIds"))

        // Use in resource creation
        ctx.Export("vpcId", vpcId)

        return nil
    })
}
```

**Working with Outputs:**
```go
package main

import (
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Apply transformation
        uppercaseName := bucket.ID().ApplyT(func(id string) string {
            return strings.ToUpper(id)
        }).(pulumi.StringOutput)

        // Combine multiple outputs
        combined := pulumi.All(bucket.ID(), bucket.Arn).ApplyT(
            func(args []interface{}) string {
                id := args[0].(string)
                arn := args[1].(string)
                return fmt.Sprintf("Bucket %s has ARN %s", id, arn)
            },
        ).(pulumi.StringOutput)

        // Conditional resources
        if ctx.Stack() == "prod" {
            _, err := cloudwatch.NewMetricAlarm(ctx, "alarm", &cloudwatch.MetricAlarmArgs{
                // ... configuration
            })
            if err != nil {
                return err
            }
        }

        return nil
    })
}
```

### 4. Using ESC with esc run

Run any command with ESC environment variables injected:

```bash
# Run pulumi commands with ESC credentials
esc run myorg/aws-dev -- pulumi up

# Run tests with secrets
esc run myorg/test-env -- go test ./...

# Open environment and export to shell
esc open myorg/myproject-dev --format shell
```

### 5. Error Handling Patterns

```go
func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Always check errors
        bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{})
        if err != nil {
            return fmt.Errorf("failed to create bucket: %w", err)
        }

        // Chain operations with error handling
        policy, err := s3.NewBucketPolicy(ctx, "policy", &s3.BucketPolicyArgs{
            Bucket: bucket.ID(),
            Policy: bucket.Arn.ApplyT(func(arn string) string {
                return fmt.Sprintf(`{"Version":"2012-10-17",...}`, arn)
            }).(pulumi.StringOutput),
        })
        if err != nil {
            return fmt.Errorf("failed to create bucket policy: %w", err)
        }

        return nil
    })
}
```

### 6. Multi-Language Components

Create components in Go that can be consumed from any Pulumi language (TypeScript, Python, C#, Java, YAML).

**Project structure for multi-language component:**
```
my-component/
├── PulumiPlugin.yaml      # Required for multi-language
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go                # Component + entry point
```

**PulumiPlugin.yaml:**
```yaml
runtime: go
```

**Component with proper Args struct (main.go):**
```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "log"

    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6/go/aws/s3"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-go-provider/infer"
    "github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
)

// Args struct - use Input types for all properties
type SecureBucketArgs struct {
    BucketName       pulumi.StringInput `pulumi:"bucketName"`
    EnableVersioning pulumi.BoolInput   `pulumi:"enableVersioning,optional"`
    Tags             pulumi.StringMapInput `pulumi:"tags,optional"`
}

type SecureBucket struct {
    pulumi.ResourceState

    BucketId  pulumi.StringOutput `pulumi:"bucketId"`
    BucketArn pulumi.StringOutput `pulumi:"bucketArn"`
}

func NewSecureBucket(ctx *pulumi.Context, name string, args *SecureBucketArgs, opts ...pulumi.ResourceOption) (*SecureBucket, error) {
    component := &SecureBucket{}
    err := ctx.RegisterComponentResource("myorg:storage:SecureBucket", name, component, opts...)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, name+"-bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{
        Bucket: args.BucketName,
        Versioning: &s3.BucketVersioningArgs{
            Enabled: args.EnableVersioning,
        },
        ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationArgs{
            Rule: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleArgs{
                ApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefault: &s3.BucketServerSideEncryptionConfigurationRuleApplyServerSideEncryptionByDefaultArgs{
                    SseAlgorithm: pulumi.String("AES256"),
                },
            },
        },
        Tags: args.Tags,
    }, pulumi.Parent(component))
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    component.BucketId = bucket.ID().ToStringOutput()
    component.BucketArn = bucket.Arn

    ctx.RegisterResourceOutputs(component, pulumi.Map{
        "bucketId":  component.BucketId,
        "bucketArn": component.BucketArn,
    })

    return component, nil
}

// Entry point for multi-language support
func main() {
    prov, err := infer.NewProviderBuilder().
        WithNamespace("myorg").
        WithComponents(
            infer.ComponentF(NewSecureBucket),
        ).
        Build()
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err.Error())
    }
    _ = prov.Run(context.Background(), "go-components", "v0.0.1")
}
```

**Publishing for multi-language consumption:**
```bash
# Consume from git repository
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component

# With version tag
pulumi package add github.com/myorg/my-component@v1.0.0

# Local development
pulumi package add /path/to/local/my-component
```

**Multi-language Args requirements:**
- Use `pulumi.*Input` types for all properties
- Use `pulumi:"fieldName"` struct tags
- Add `,optional` tag suffix for optional fields
- Avoid interface{} or unsupported types

## Best Practices

### Security
- Use Pulumi ESC for all secrets - never commit secrets to stack config files
- Enable OIDC authentication instead of static credentials
- Use dynamic secrets with short TTLs when possible
- Apply least-privilege IAM policies

### Code Organization
- Use Component Resources for reusable infrastructure patterns
- Leverage Go's type system for configuration validation
- Keep stack-specific config in ESC environments
- Use stack references for cross-stack dependencies
- Handle all errors explicitly

### Deployment
- Always run `pulumi preview` before `pulumi up`
- Use ESC environment versioning and tags for releases
- Implement proper tagging strategy for all resources
- Build your Go program before running Pulumi: `go build -o $(basename $(pwd))`

## Common Commands

```bash
# ESC Commands
esc env init <org>/<project>/<env>    # Create environment
esc env edit <org>/<env>              # Edit environment
esc env get <org>/<env>               # View resolved values
esc run <org>/<env> -- <command>      # Run with env vars
esc env version tag <org>/<env> <tag> # Tag version

# Pulumi Commands
pulumi new go                          # New project
pulumi config env add <org>/<env>     # Link ESC environment
go build -o $(basename $(pwd))         # Build Go binary
pulumi preview                         # Preview changes
pulumi up                              # Deploy
pulumi stack output                    # View outputs
pulumi destroy                         # Tear down
```

## Go-Specific Considerations

### Module Management

```bash
# Initialize Go modules
go mod init myproject

# Add Pulumi dependencies
go get github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3
go get github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v6

# Update dependencies
go mod tidy
```

### Building

```bash
# Build before running Pulumi
go build -o $(basename $(pwd))

# Or let Pulumi build automatically (slower)
pulumi up
```

## References

- [references/pulumi-esc.md](references/pulumi-esc.md) - ESC patterns and commands
- [references/pulumi-patterns.md](references/pulumi-patterns.md) - Common infrastructure patterns
- [references/pulumi-go.md](references/pulumi-go.md) - Go-specific guidance
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-aws.md) - AWS best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-azure.md) - Azure best practices
- [references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md](references/pulumi-best-practices-gcp.md) - GCP best practices
